Page header docs (#408)
primer/design: content/components/page-header.mdx

---
title: Page header
reactId: drafts_page_header
description: Page header determines the top-level headings of a UI.
figma: https://www.figma.com/file/Ee0OrXuOLXMDqUW83EnDHP/PageHeader-(FY23-Q1)?node-id=0%3A1&t=8cKRbkNYhwbqEoHj-1
---

import {Box, Text} from '@primer/react'
import ComponentLayout from '~/src/layouts/component-layout'
export default ComponentLayout

## Usage

The page header arranges elements that apply context and provide navigation for the current page. 

The elements within Page header are rearranged and displayed accordingly depending on the [viewport size](/foundations/layout#viewport-ranges) and context of the page.

<img 
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/222194474-74b72ae3-f8d4-4336-9a2c-9d5c18d91c42.png"
    role="presentation"
    width="960"
    alt="Page header component"
/>

## Anatomy 

Page header can include a context bar, title bar, description, and contextual navigation (pertaining to the current page). 

> By default, the [context bar](#context-bar) is visible on narrow viewports only, the [title bar](#title-bar) is visible on all viewports, and the back button and trailing action are visible on regular viewports.

Reviewer: The back button is renamed to `LeadingAction` so it should be "...and the leading and trailing action are visible on regular viewports."

Would it be also possible to update this on Figma and take a new screenshot please? 🙇🏻‍♀️

Author: Fixed! apologies - you told me that and i thought it was the other way around. Should be fixed to 'leading action' now

Author: done ✔️

      Context bar actions
    </Text>
    <Text as="p" mt="1">
        Actions that appear in the context bar specifically.
    </Text>
  </Box>
  <img
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/222194470-da8126b8-72c5-4078-968e-ebc5c2bf3140.png"
    role="presentation"
    width="456"
  />
</Box>

<Box
  as="figure"
  display="flex"
  alignItems="flex-start"
  justifyContent="space-between"
  flexDirection={['column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'row']}
  m={0}
  mb={3}
  sx={{gap: 3}}
>
  <Box as="figcaption" mt="1">
    <Text as="h3" fontSize={2} m={0}>
      Context bar area
    </Text>
    <Text as="p" mt="0">
        The context bar is a generic slot for any component above the title region. 
        Use it for custom breadcrumbs and other navigation elements instead of parent link.
    </Text>
  </Box>
  <img
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/222194469-85131849-4a7a-41e6-abca-040d042110df.png"
    role="presentation"
    width="456"
  />
</Box>

## Title bar

The title bar can include a static page title, actions, and a parent link that by default is only visible on narrow viewports.

> 

Reviewer: This might be a copy-paste mistake?

    role="presentation"
    width="456"
  />
</Box>

<Box
  as="figure"
  display="flex"
  alignItems="flex-start"
  justifyContent="space-between"
  flexDirection={['column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'row']}
  m={0}
  mb={3}
  sx={{gap: 3}}
>
  <Box as="figcaption" mt="1">
    <Text as="h3" fontSize={2} m={0}>
      Leading visual
    </Text>
    <Text as="p" mt="0">
        Leading visuals are optional and appear at the start of the title. They can be octicons, avatars, and other custom visuals that fit a small area.
    </Text>
  </Box>
  <img
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/222194458-922bd3bf-475d-4d76-97a1-bd8cda6af6f5.png"
    role="presentation"
    width="456"
  />
</Box>

<Box
  as="figure"
  display="flex"
  alignItems="flex-start"
  justifyContent="space-between"
  flexDirection={['column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'row']}
  m={0}
  mb={3}
  sx={{gap: 3}}
>
  <Box as="figcaption" mt="1">
    <Text as="h3" fontSize={2} m={0}>
      Trailing visual
    </Text>
    <Text as="p" mt="0">

>         Trailing visual and trailing text can display auxiliary information. They're placed at the right of the item, and can denote status, privacy details, etc.

Reviewer: Should we also add that the leading and trailing visuals remain visible on all viewports?

Author: fixed now

    </Text>
  </Box>
  <img
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/222194459-daf8c4b8-0452-40a2-bdf3-2b74be06e7ef.png"
    role="presentation"
    width="456"
  />
</Box>

<Box
  as="figure"
  display="flex"
  alignItems="flex-start"
  justifyContent="space-between"
  flexDirection={['column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'row']}
  m={0}
  mb={3}
  sx={{gap: 3}}
>
  <Box as="figcaption" mt="1">
    <Text as="h3" fontSize={2} m={0}>
      Back button
    </Text>
    <Text as="p" mt="0">

>         A back button can be used as a leading action for local navigation. On narrow viewports, use parent link instead.

Reviewer: Back button -> leading visual :)

---
title: Page header

> reactID: drafts_page_header

Author: this tab still isn't showing up

Author: fixed ❤️ thank you @colebemis

> description: Page header determines the top-level headings of a UI

Reviewer 2: It applies to way more than just headings. Maybe we can try something like

```suggestion
description: Page header arranges top-level contextual information and controls for the page
```

figma: https://www.figma.com/file/Ee0OrXuOLXMDqUW83EnDHP/PageHeader-(FY23-Q1)?node-id=0%3A1&t=8cKRbkNYhwbqEoHj-1
---

import {Box, Text} from '@primer/react'
import ComponentLayout from '~/src/layouts/component-layout'
export default ComponentLayout

## Usage

> Page header is used to determine the arrangement of top-level headings and to determine how elements adopt to different viewports. Page header organizes different elements that apply context and provide navigation for the current UI. 

Author: Okay - just want to note here we should also update the component metadata, where this comes from ^

<Box
  as="figure"
  display="flex"
  alignItems="flex-start"
  justifyContent="space-between"
  flexDirection={['column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'row']}
  m={0}
  mb={3}
  sx={{gap: 3}}
>
  <Box as="figcaption" mt="1">
    <Text as="h3" fontSize={2} m={0}>
      Parent link
    </Text>
    <Text as="p" mt="0">
        The default way to let users navigate up in the hierarchy on narrow viewports.
    </Text>
  </Box>
  <img
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/222194471-dfc56e9a-a2ab-48a0-8a04-41ebb5ec4adf.png"
    role="presentation"
    width="456"
  />
</Box>

<Box
  as="figure"
  display="flex"
  alignItems="flex-start"
  justifyContent="space-between"
  flexDirection={['column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'row']}
  m={0}
  mb={3}
  sx={{gap: 3}}
>
  <Box as="figcaption" mt="1">
    <Text as="h3" fontSize={2} m={0}>
      Context bar actions
    </Text>
    <Text as="p" mt="1">

>         Actions that appear in the Context bar specifically.

Author: I think the only reason this distinction (taken from Figma) is because they are actions that live specifically in the context bar, vs the actions in the title bar (which appear below). I don't believe there are any differences between the actions here vs the title bar - except that they pertain to their context

>         Actions that appear in the Context bar specifically.

Reviewer 2: If the context bar is only visible on narrow viewports, what do we do with those actions for wider viewports? That might be good info for here.

Neither of us was very involved in the design of this component, so we might have to just merge and leave things vague until we get some answers.

    role="presentation"
    width="456"
  />
</Box>

<Box
  as="figure"
  display="flex"
  alignItems="flex-start"
  justifyContent="space-between"
  flexDirection={['column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'row']}
  m={0}
  mb={3}
  sx={{gap: 3}}
>
  <Box as="figcaption" mt="1">
    <Text as="h3" fontSize={2} m={0}>
      Context bar area
    </Text>
    <Text as="p" mt="0">
        The Context bar is a generic slot for any component above the title region. 
        Use it for custom breadcrumbs and other navigation elements instead of Parent link.
    </Text>
  </Box>
  <img
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/222194469-85131849-4a7a-41e6-abca-040d042110df.png"
    role="presentation"
    width="456"
  />
</Box>

### Context bar responsive strategy

On narrow viewports, the Parent link touch target expands beyond its element boundaries.

<img 
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/222216317-c8478ab0-6541-49c6-9140-bc884e9a8cd4.png"
    role="presentation"
    width="877"
    alt="Page header context bar in a narrow viewport"
/>

## Title bar

> The Title bar can include a static page title, actions, and a parent link that by default is only visible on narrow viewports.

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to explain what kinds of actions go in the title bar.

Reviewer 2: If we can't figure out which actions go in the title bar vs the context bar, we can just merge and wait until we figure out an answer about that.

<Box
  as="figure"
  display="flex"
  alignItems="flex-start"
  justifyContent="space-between"
  flexDirection={['column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'row']}
  m={0}
  mb={3}
  sx={{gap: 3}}
>
  <Box as="figcaption" mt="1">
    <Text as="h3" fontSize={2} m={0}>
      Default title variant
    </Text>
    <Text as="p" mt="0">

>         The default way to let users navigate up in the hierarchy on narrow viewports.

Reviewer 2: So this title is also a link? It's not really clear in the example image. It just looks like this is the "default" text size/style for the title.

Author: I'm not sure what you mean here ^

  flexDirection={['column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'row']}
  m={0}
  mb={3}
  sx={{gap: 3}}
>
  <Box as="figcaption" mt="1">
    <Text as="h3" fontSize={2} m={0}>
      Large title variant
    </Text>
    <Text as="p" mt="0">
        Use large for for user-generated content such as issues, pull requests, or discussions.
    </Text>
  </Box>
  <img
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/222194464-6c477db6-bb11-445e-b27e-41a0c7267758.png"
    role="presentation"
    width="456"
  />
</Box>

<Box
  as="figure"
  display="flex"
  alignItems="flex-start"
  justifyContent="space-between"
  flexDirection={['column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'row']}
  m={0}
  mb={3}
  sx={{gap: 3}}
>
  <Box as="figcaption" mt="1">
    <Text as="h3" fontSize={2} m={0}>
      Subtitle variant
    </Text>
    <Text as="p" mt="0">
        Use subtitle when a title is already present in the page, such as in a Split page layout.
    </Text>
  </Box>
  <img
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/222215097-79bb0d77-af5c-4199-81a1-65d98a7a0556.png"
    role="presentation"
    width="456"
  />
</Box>

> ### Title bar responsive strategy

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this section too.

On narrow viewports, all title variants appear as medium.

> ## Title bar visual regions

Reviewer 2: I think we can combine this content with the title variants

  sx={{gap: 3}}
>
  <Box as="figcaption" mt="1">
    <Text as="h3" fontSize={2} m={0}>
      Leading visual
    </Text>
    <Text as="p" mt="0">
        Leading visuals are optional and appear at the start of the title. They can be octicons, avatars, and other custom visuals that fit a small area.
    </Text>
  </Box>
  <img
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/222194458-922bd3bf-475d-4d76-97a1-bd8cda6af6f5.png"
    role="presentation"
    width="456"
  />
</Box>

<Box
  as="figure"
  display="flex"
  alignItems="flex-start"
  justifyContent="space-between"
  flexDirection={['column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'column-reverse', 'row']}
  m={0}
  mb={3}
  sx={{gap: 3}}
>
  <Box as="figcaption" mt="1">
    <Text as="h3" fontSize={2} m={0}>
      Trailing visual
    </Text>
    <Text as="p" mt="0">
        Trailing visual and trailing text can display auxiliary information. They're placed at the right of the item, and can denote status, privacy details, etc.
    </Text>
  </Box>
  <img
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/222194459-daf8c4b8-0452-40a2-bdf3-2b74be06e7ef.png"
    role="presentation"
    width="456"
  />
</Box>

> ### Title bar visual regions responsive strategy

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this section too.

On narrow viewports, all visual regions remain visible by default.

> ## Title bar action regions

Reviewer 2: I think we can combine this content with the title variants and leading/trailing visuals.

title: Page header
description: Page header determines the top-level headings of a UI
reactID: PageHeader
---

import {Box, Text} from '@primer/react'
import ComponentLayout from '~/src/layouts/component-layout'
export default ComponentLayout

## Usage

Page header is used to determine the arrangement of top-level headings and to determine how elements adopt to different viewports. Page header organizes different elements that apply context and provide navigation for the current UI. 

## Anatomy 

Page header can include a context bar, title bar, description, and contextual navigation (pertaining to the current page/UI). 

## Context bar

By default, the Context bar (including its actions) is only visible on Narrow viewports. This is intended to set context for the user on smaller viewports and provide any actions that fit within the context bar.

### Parent link

The default way to let users navigate up in the hierarchy on Narrow viewports.

**Responsive strategy**: On Narrow viewports, the ParentLink touch target expands beyond its element boundaries, to match with the minTouchTarget design token.

### Context bar actions

Actions that appear in the Context bar specifically.

> ### Context bar

Reviewer 3: The markdown lints fail as there are two identical `Context bar` titles

Author: ah thanks for catching!
